
%!options: --outfile README.md
%!target: md

- //See the [full sample page ?page=sample.t2t]//

- //Read the [help ?page=help.t2t]//

- //**Download** an [archive with all the required files for using Phileas http://wiki.txt2tags.org/demos/phileas.zip]// 


== About Phileas ==

 
**Phileas** is a semi-static site generator, using javascript and simple text files written in txt2tags syntax (a.k.a. "markdown ultra" because it's better than markdown).

It is simple, file based (it doesn't need database like MySQL) and doesn't even require PHP. It is suitable for small websites, personal notebooks or journals. You don't need to compile your source, it is rendered on the fly by the browser of your visitors.


> Phileas' homepage and source code are located at: 
- https://github.com/farvardin/phileas
- or https://bitbucket.org/farvardin/phileas/



//Phileas: Your website served with style!//


== About txt2tags ==

**[Txt2tags http://www.txt2tags.org]** is a document generator and a lightweight markup.

It reads a text file with minimal markup such as ``**bold**`` and ``//italic//``. Its python implementation can convert to several formats such as //html, docbook, LaTeX, RTF, Man page, Creole, Wikipedia / MediaWiki, PmWiki, DokuWiki, MoinMoin, AsciiDoc...//

It is __very__ **extensible** and **customisable**, by using regex and preprocessors.

Its php and javascript implementations target only HTML but you can use them with several CMS, Blog and wiki engines.




== About txt2tags and Phileas ==

Txt2tags and Phileas are following [the KISS principle https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle]: They are lightweight and easy to use.

//[Read more... index.html?page=help.t2t]//





